We're going to go through
the a solution to the second exercise,
where we're adding
Facebook Open Graph tags to improve
the recognizability of these links online.
And we're gonna make it so that we get
a nice thumbnail, a nice description and
title in a rich tile whenever these
links are shared on Facebook.
So I'm going to begin.
So the first thing I did was I
just went to this slide here,
where before we looked at all
of the different meta tags.
And I copied these into my editor here so
I don't have to reach back for them later.
Other than that, no tricks up my sleeves.
I don't currently have my server running.
So I'm gonna fire that up.
That's going to be run -e opengraph.
And that'll start the OpenGraph
exercise on localhost 3000.
And what we see is a list of courses.
And if we hover over each of these or
even click on one of them,
we can see that this is a different
URL on a per course basis.
We should see a different image when we
go to different ones, and we in fact do.
So this is being driven
by this router.js file.
But ultimately the HTML is coming from
these two hbs files in the views folder.
And these are sort of HTML
with handlebars that we can
use to like mixed data into our HTML.
So I'm gonna copy these meta tags because
we'll end up using whatever we
can in each of these two files.
So here I'm just gonna leave myself
a comment, so we can stay organized.
So Facebook, Or
I'll just call it OpenGraph tags.
Because it was rightly pointed out
that more than Facebook uses this.
Or I'm gonna say, sorry,
Begin OpenGraph and end OpenGraph.
So I can find these really
easily later on and I am gonna
paste it in with all the wrong values, and
we will just update those as we go along.
So one thing is I'm not gonna
actually use an image for
this first slide, the list of courses.
Cuz I do not have a good one that
would apply it to the whole list.
This might be one where you'd like
build a composite of several courses or
maybe like your brand, you would
use the image of your brand there.
It doesn't really fit as well for
this this thing here.
So we'll keep OpenGraph type as website.
It's good to provide this although
you saw in my website, I did not.
I probably should go and fix that, but
Facebook will nag you about this and
you will get that warning until you
put this here and make it go away.
So for the URL,
I'm just gonna use the Heroku URL.
Now, it would be nice if we could express
this in a way where we could deploy it in
a couple different places.
And it would not be sort of sensitive
to like this literal string being here,
but this will do for now.
So this is the canonical URL.
What this means is if I were to
add like query params to this.
So say we could filter through this list
of courses by a partial name search, we
could just pull up like the Ember courses.
That query param would
not be in this meta tag.
And so even if we shared that
link with the query param and
if someone likes that or shares it on,
all of the SEO credit goes to the bear
URL without any decoration on it.
So in our title,
we can just put a list of courses.
And this is gonna be the description.
Courses I teach.
Just put a little like
tagline there something, and
we're pretty much done with
the index page, right?
Now we could add some of the things that
we had before like meta:description.
Oops, I guess I can't do it that way.
But I'm not gonna worry about that for
this exercise.
So I'm gonna copy this block here.
We're gonna do a slightly edited
version of it for the course.hbs page.
We'll just drop it here.
Now, the URL in this case
is gonna be dynamic, right?
Cuz it's different for
each course that we click on.
I'm gonna balance something from index.hbs
that we used to build the links, right??
This thing here.
And I'm gonna use it
course page like that.
Cuz we're using this course
information elsewhere.
And it seems like that should work, right?
And that matches what the URL
will be when I deploy.
The og type unfortunately, I don't have
a more specific type that I can use for
this kind of thing.
If at some point they were to
say like course is now type,
this would be fantastic.
Because in the future if there's
some Facebook app that lets you say,
these are the things,
the classes I wanna take.
Now I could be part of that, and
I could be recognized as
being of that specific type.
And anything that relates to
courses across Facebook's whole
platform now will show up there.
The title, I'm gonna use the same
title we are putting in our h1 tag.
And we also have a description that
we can take advantage of there.
In this case, and there's no way for
you to know this, I have a description and
a summary.
The summary is of a shorter
length than the description.
The description can be a couple
paragraphs long, right?
So I'm gonna just choose
to use the summary.
Again, there was no way for you to know
this, but I have made something that
that is designed to be short,
and keyword-rich.
And that is a specific column in my
database that is really all about SEO.
And so I have a couple different
variants of description there for
different purposes, right?
All right, and
now time comes for an image.
Now I did hear from someone that og:image
URL, I did when we were reviewing this.
I suggested that that might be
an equivalent that you could use,
turns out that's not correct.
You just want og:image.
And instead of using the square.url,
if you look at the structure of
this data here, let's take a look.
So inside this image info object,
let's just grab this one as an example.
You can see we've got several
different sizes, and we have width,
height and URL for
each of these different sizes of image.
So I'm gonna use FB share,
which is the one I've built for Facebook.
And you can see I've built my
API here with SEO in mind, and
with the idea of being able to have
statically sized images in mind.
So that we know exactly what width and
height this thing is gonna be.
And we're gonna get into
error pages later on.
This is another place where we wanna
make sure that things are rendered fast,
just like Facebook wants
to render things fast.
And they wanna basically size
everything before that image actually
finishes downloading.
And then once it lands,
it's not gonna cause your layout
to be altered in any way.
You're not gonna have
content shifting around.
Because this thing that came
in was larger than expected.
So that should be a good
place to start there.
And then we're going to add
in our width and height.
Image:width, and
then basically the same thing with height.
All right, so this should be good.
Now let's make a commit.
All right, so now we've made it
like a new version of our app here.
Before I push,
you'll notice that like my app is
currently it's showing the first
exercise we were working on.
All day what we're going to be able to do
is switch to different exercises by just
changing that environment variable
exercise that we initially set.
So this is the same thing you use as
the argument to -e when you run your app
locally.
What it'll end up doing
is restart the app.
And if I do a refresh here, you'll see
that it'll give me my starting point for
the list of courses.
There we go.
So now we're gonna push this new version
up to GitHub with git push heroku master.
And we can see that it's gonna go and
do its thing.
Pretty quick, so the build is done.
It's compressing it, and
should be available now.
So I'm gonna just refresh because it
takes a little bit longer the first time
you do a new deploy,
it has to sort of start things up.
And we'll go back to the open graph
debugger, and I'm gonna grab one
of my URLs here, let's do an image
we haven't seen yet, let's do this.
All right, so there's elixir fundamentals,
so we're gonna paste that here, hit enter.
And the first thing you'll
notice is it's saying,
I've never fetched this
information before.
So this is what you'll get for
brand new apps.
I'm sure all of you ran into this,
fetch new information.
All right, and now we can see
there's our image that just came in.
You noticed if you were looking closely,
the frame was exactly the right size for
the image, and
then it kinda came in and filled it up.
And here are all the OpenGraph
tags that it found.
So they're all what we put in there.
We have nothing more than what
Facebook is looking for here.
And if we go up to the top,
we have one warning here that says,
it wants a Facebook app ID.
This is not Critical, this is one
warning that it's safe to ignore,
particularly if you're not registered
with the Facebook app platform.
If you have like a login with Facebook
button, then you will have an app
ID that corresponds to
the setup required for that.
And you'd put your app ID there and
it might give you a little like decoration
with a little tiny logo or something.
Connecting your brand and
your app on the Facebook platform,
even if it's just login with
Facebook to whatever is shared here.
I do wanna demonstrate that I can
add a query param to this URL.
This is a brand new URL,
never been fetched before.
And because of the way we set this up,
the canonical URL here it's gonna be
exactly what it should be, right?
So regardless of whether we're
dealing with the mobile view, or
whether it's the admins
view of this thing.
Anything that would like be
the extra decoration on this URL,
all of our SEO credibility
built on that same link.
And that is the OpenGraph solution.
So I'm gonna start committing these
solutions that I come up with to
a brand called solution.
And you can check them out if you wanna
compare it with what you ended up doing.
Yes,
>> So
I noticed you're using query
params in your image URLs.
>> Yes.
>> So that you get around
the fact that URL never changes,
they will never refetch it.
>> It absolutely is to
get around with that.
So you'll notice, and this by the way
it's something that AWS supports.
So I'm hosting my images
on Amazon Web Services S3,
and I am putting CloudFront in
front of that, which is their CDN.
So these images end up having
a version next to them.
So that version query params is based on
the modification time of that file in S3.
So this is a way of sort of getting around
Facebook's, like once you give me a URL,
I will never update it.
And in particular because the names,
if you look at this image URL,
it's very common when you have
an image associated with a record
to have like the ID of that
record baked into that image URL.
So if you give me a course ID,
I can give you the URL for this image.
So I don't really have the freedom
to have a different URL here.
As long as I have a record 6,
this is the one URL for
this particular size of this image.
And so the version query param
necessary in order to bust the cache.
If I upload a new version,
like say Elixir changes their logo and
I wannaupdate my thing, then that would
be what I would use, but good eye.
Good eye and a common strategy to
deal with this kind of problem.
And by the way Facebook would
not have a problem with this
because their whole idea is
like they wanna detect changes.
They just don't want to
refetch images each and
every time with the assumption that
they could be modified at any time.
So this is me giving them a totally
appropriate signal that I'm sure they
would appreciate if all developers
did something like this.